S3 - Basics

Objects based vs Block based storage

0 - 5 TB per file

Maximum upload piece can not be be beyond 5 GB.....
For file size bigger than that, use multipart upload....

Unlimited Storage

Bucket

Universal Namespace

http://s3:<region>.amazonaws.com/<bucketname>

https://s3.amazonaws.com/edureka2019/hello.txt

Bucket Polices: Access rules set at bucket level. It overrides individual access permissions of any object inside that bucket.

Data Consistency
	Read After Write Consistency for PUTS of new Objects
		Any object is immediately available for read after write of that object completes.
	Eventual Consistency for Overwrite PUTS and DELETE (1-2 Secs)
		Once you update of delete an object, it may take a couple of seconds to reflect. User can see eith old or new data during time.
		Either New or Old version of Data / No Partial Version

Key Value Store:
	Key -> Name
	Value -> Actual Data
	Version ID -> XXX
	MetaData -> 
	Subresources -> Access Control List, Torrent

Features:

	Built for 99.99% Available but Amazon Guarentees 99.9% Availability
	99.999999999% (11-9) of Durability
	Tiered Storage Options
	Life Cycle Management
	Versioning
	Encryption
	ACL and Bucket Policies
	

Tier/ Class
	S3: 99.99% Av, 11-9 Durability, Can sustain 2 facilities loss
	S3-IA: Lower Fee + Retrieval Fee, 99.99% av, 11-9 Durability
	Reduced Redundency Storage: 99.99% Av, 99.99% Durability (Data Can be 	generated again), 1 Facility Loss

	S3 Glacier: Less cost storage for archive data. Data gets stored in archive pieces and pieces are kept in vault. It takes 3-5 hrs of time to restore vault and then files can be downloaded. 

	1$ for 100 GB for 1 month. + 1 Cent per GB for restore.
Expedite Retrival: 3 Cents per GB for restore then object can be restored with 1-5 minutes.

S3 Charges:
	Storage
	Requests PUTS and GETS
	Data Transfer Pricing
	Transfer Acceleration

Integration with Lifecycle Rules

Versioning: This feature allows you to maintain multiple versions of the same object. When object will same name is uploaded to S3, it makes earliar copy as old version.

Once you delete the object while versioning is on. It does not actually deletes the object. It creates a delete marker, which hides the file from URL but file will not ne deleted and be made older version.
	
To save objects from accedential delete, you should use versioning and MFA.


Life Cycle Policy allows S3 objects to be moved to different pricing tier based in life of the object.
Ex: Object can be stored in S3 Std and will be moved to S3 IA after 90 days and glaciers after 365 days and expire after 730 days.

Transfer Acceleration: This feature enhances upload speed to S3 buckets by leveraging edge locations.


Cross Region Replication between S3 buckets (For New Objects)
	Replicates all version upon update
	Replicate permissions as well
	Deleting of Delete Marker does get replicate to destination bucket but not 		for individual version of file

Lifecycle Management Lab
	Can leverage Versioning
	Applied for both current and Old version
	
	
S3 Transfer Acceleraion
		
CloudFront: It is a service which allows faster download of object by leveraging edge locations.



